Dear esteemed fellow practitioners, I have accepted
the task of caring for all beings. Through
caring for everyone, I have come to understand
people better, and my
compassionate heart has developed further.
If I hadn't accepted
this task, I would forever remain
selfish, always wishing for
others to do good to me, without ever considering
why I am not good to
others. The knowledge you,
esteemed fellow practitioners, previously
formed in my mind, a thought I
thought was outdated: Why do people
always want others to be good
to them instead of being good
to others themselves? Why do we always want everyone to be good to us?
Why do we always complain about
why people aren't good to us,
while
we proactively ask ourselves why we aren't good to others? We do
n't bother to
ask ourselves why we aren't good
to others, but instead keep
asking why people aren't good to
us. Therefore, dear fellow practitioners...
As Buddhist disciples, we should always
reflect on why we
are not being good to others, why
we are not striving to be good to everyone,
and whether being good to others is enough
to fulfill our desires.
We should always feel that our
desire to be good to others is
not enough, not complete,
not sufficient. For example, if
someone asks for our help, it's truly a time when
they have nowhere else to turn, when they are suffering, and
we
have the ability to help them.
Why do we refuse?
Let's consider our own suffering: did
we also long for help from others?
So, don't blame others for not
helping you; instead, blame yourself for
not trying to help others
when they need you.  Siddhartha, through
many lifetimes, harbored
the thought of making
all beings happy. How can all beings
be happy? This question, which
connected many lifetimes, led him to
achieve the state of
perfect enlightenment. Therefore, when we
study Buddhism, we must learn the great and sincere mind:
why should
n't we be good to others?
How can we make everyone happy?
That is the Buddha-mind. That is the Buddha's principle, and
that mind leads us to Buddhahood. That mind leads
us to
constantly strive, without
resentment.
Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners,
at this point, I, the enlightened and contemplative mind, would like to
share: If we have compassion for someone with a tumor
on their tongue, a tumor that protrudes and grows out, would
n't we feel compassion? We would
bring
them money, rice, and
food. Would they be able to eat?
Even if they couldn't, we could
help them by helping them
understand the law of karma and the consequences of speech.
Don't speak ill of others. Don't say evil words that harm
good people, because later...  We don't suffer such karmic consequences
when we are happy because we understand
karma. We will do everything we can
to help others abandon evil
deeds and do good. That is the ultimate goal, preventing
them from suffering karmic consequences like you, my
friend. Why is it that even though we understand
karma, we don't strive to
help people understand karma and
practice good deeds? If we don't
help people practice good deeds, we will
unintentionally allow those
with whom we have a karmic connection to create evil and
suffer karmic consequences.
The consequences will be very painful and tragic.
Therefore, as compassionate
Buddhas, we must always strive to
help people practice the
Buddha's teachings, abandon evil, and do good. This will help
people change their lives in many
future lifetimes so that they
can be happy. The opportunity will come to us, not
to others, and
we won't deceive others, right, my dear
friend? If we have the karmic connection to be chosen as
group leader, then the opportunity to help sentient beings is
ours, my dear friend.
Don't just say, "Let's leave it to others."  Let
others be kind to all beings, but I'll take my
time, that's not right, is it?
So, if your heart still longs for
happiness, then bring happiness to
others. Eating will bring happiness, and it's
also a matter of spiritual harmony. Yes, yes.
[Music]
[Applause]